# Transfer learning

## Overview
Python and Matlab implementation of transfer learning algorithms for domain adaptation.
J. Zhao, S. Shetty and J. W. Pan, "Feature-based transfer learning for network security," MILCOM 2017 - 2017 IEEE Military Communications Conference (MILCOM), Baltimore, MD, 2017, pp. 17-22.
doi: 10.1109/MILCOM.2017.8170749, https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8170749/
This code has been tested on Matlab R2015b and Anacoda python on a windows system.

## Data Description
The folder "data" contains the original NSL_KDD and some split data for transfer learning.
1. In "matlab/data" folder, there are 3 transfer learning tasks, they're:
  ⋅⋅*"dos_vs_probe"
  ⋅⋅*"dos_vs_r2l"
  ⋅⋅*"probe_vs_r2l"
2. For each task, the input data is under each folder.
  ⋅⋅*"source.x.dat" is the features of instances in the source domain. 
  ⋅⋅*"source.y.dat" is the labels of the corresponding instances in "source.x.dat"
  ⋅⋅*"target.x.dat" is the features of instances in the target domain. 
 ⋅⋅* "target.y.dat" is the labels of the corresponding instances in "target.x.dat"
   *The HeTL needs the source and target should be the same size of the instances. The feature dimensions can be different.
3. Within each task folder, there is a "result" folder, which is for the output results for the transfer learning codes. 
   ⋅⋅*The "result" folder will contain several folders with the names of the combinations of the parameters.
   ⋅⋅*The codes will produce the new projected data named "transformed_source.csv" and "transformed_target.csv" in each subfolder.

## Usage
1. To run the algorithm, please type in "run_HeTL" in Matlab command line; The output results will be written to the folder "matlab/data/[domain_name]/result_hetl". Please specify your file_path to the transfer learning task.
⋅⋅*"The core algorithm of transfer learning was Matlab/HeTL.m and Matlab/HeTL_v2.m. 

2. Classification on new transformed data by HeTL, which is implemented in python, in "python" folder.
⋅⋅*"Classification_domain_adaption.py"  is to produce the classification results for the transformed data by "HeTL".  It will read all the "transformed_source.csv" and "transformed_target.csv" generated by "run_HeTL.m", located in matlab/{transfer learning task}/result.
⋅⋅*The output result will be either printed on the screen and directly written to a csv file containing all the metrics result under the subfolder 'result'
⋅⋅*Please specify "domain" to your transfer learning task.

⋅⋅*Summary.ipynb
 -View　feature distribution of NSL_KDD data.
⋅⋅*Classification-baseline.ipynb
 -run the classfication before transfer learning as baselines

Result Description
The generated classfication results contains k,b,isnormlized and several metrics for each classfier. The metrics is "accuracy" (ac),"precision"(p),"recall","f1","auc". Each row is results for the combinations for parameters k,b and is isnormlized.
The last two rows are the best values for the current metric of current classifier and the corresponding best parameters.

3. View, plot the data and the baseline for NSL_KDD
The viewing, plotting, and baseline approaches are implemented in ipython notebook.
The corresponding data for viewing, baseline is in the subfolder "data". The formats are csv.

4.Other utility codes
python/SelecteSamples.py
 -Generating samples from large NSL_KDD dataset.

##Note
Please note, if you need to use the code for any kind of academy use or commecial use, please cite paper:
J. Zhao, S. Shetty and J. W. Pan, "Feature-based transfer learning for network security," MILCOM 2017 - 2017 IEEE Military Communications Conference (MILCOM), Baltimore, MD, 2017, pp. 17-22.
doi: 10.1109/MILCOM.2017.8170749

https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8170749/

Please feel free to contact juan.zhao@vanderbilt.edu if come up with any problem.




